BREEDLOG EXPORT DOCUMENT CORRECTION, STANDARDIZATION, AND HARDENING TASK

Objective:
Fix BreedLog’s exported documents properly and professionally. The current export documentation is not acceptable because different exports use different templates, different header/footer handling, different logo sizing, and inconsistent page layouts. The correct export template is the one currently used by the Group Rams export. That Group Rams export has the correct letterhead/header and the correct dark footer ribbon with yellow and white text. Use that as the canonical visual template for all exported documents in the app.

Important:
Do not redesign the brand.
Do not change the footer content.
Do not change animal export data fields unless there is a proven existing bug.
Do not invent placeholder data.
Do not make one-off export fixes.
Create one reusable export template system and route every export through it.

PHASE 1 — AUDIT ALL CURRENT EXPORTS

First inspect every export route/component/helper in the app.

Find all PDF/document exports, including at minimum:

1. Group animal exports:

   * Total Herd / All Animals
   * All Rams
   * All Ewes
   * All Lambs
   * Group Rams

2. Individual animal exports:

   * Individual Ram
   * Individual Ewe
   * Individual Lamb
   * Any individual animal profile / detail export

3. Any related animal record exports currently available in the app.

Document internally which files/functions currently generate each export. Do not skip hidden export buttons, page-level exports, utility export functions, or older helper functions.

PHASE 2 — CREATE ONE CANONICAL EXPORT TEMPLATE

Use the Group Rams export as the source of truth for the visual template.

Create a reusable export layout layer, for example:

* CanonicalExportPage
* ExportHeader
* ExportFooterRibbon
* GroupAnimalExportTable
* IndividualAnimalExportLayout
* ExportPageConfig
* ExportBrandingConfig

The exact names may follow the existing project style, but the final result must be a single reusable system, not copied templates scattered across the app.

The canonical template must enforce:

1. Same letterhead/header on every export.
2. Same logo size on every export.
3. Same header fitment at the top of every page.
4. Same font family and text scale system.
5. Same footer ribbon on every page.
6. Same dark ribbon footer with the existing yellow and white footer text.
7. Footer must be fixed to the bottom of every PDF page.
8. Footer must never appear in the middle of the page.
9. Footer must never overlap document content.
10. Footer content must not be changed.
11. Only the footer positioning may be corrected.
12. Page padding must be professional and consistent.
13. Content area must be calculated between header and footer.
14. Page breaks must respect the fixed header/footer areas.

PHASE 3 — GROUP ANIMAL EXPORT STANDARD

All group animal exports must use landscape orientation.

This applies to:

* Total Herd / All Animals
* All Rams
* All Ewes
* All Lambs
* Group Rams
* Any other grouped animal list export

Group animal exports must all look like the same family of documents. The only difference between them must be the contextual data and column set required for that animal group.

Requirements:

1. Landscape page orientation.
2. Same canonical header as Group Rams.
3. Same canonical footer ribbon as Group Rams.
4. Same medium logo size on every group export.
5. Same title styling.
6. Same subtitle/meta styling.
7. Same table styling.
8. Same table header styling.
9. Same row height system.
10. Same page padding.
11. Same footer position.
12. Must fit at least 20 animal entries per page.
13. Pagination must break cleanly after the configured page capacity.
14. If fewer than 20 animals are exported, do not stretch rows.
15. If fewer than 20 animals are exported, do not stretch columns to fill the page unnaturally.
16. Empty space may remain, but the layout must remain neat, balanced, and professional.
17. Table must not collide with footer.
18. Footer must stay fixed at the bottom of each exported page.

Data rules:

* Rams must keep their own ram-specific export values.
* Ewes must keep their own ewe-specific export values.
* Lambs must keep their own lamb-specific export values.
* Total Herd must keep its correct mixed/herd export values.
* Do not force all animal groups into the same data columns.
* The template must be the same; the data/columns must remain type-correct.

PHASE 4 — INDIVIDUAL ANIMAL EXPORT STANDARD

All individual animal exports must use portrait orientation.

This applies to:

* Individual Ram exports
* Individual Ewe exports
* Individual Lamb exports
* Any individual animal profile/detail export

Requirements:

1. Portrait page orientation.
2. Same canonical header as Group Rams.
3. Same canonical footer ribbon as Group Rams.
4. Same medium logo size as all other exports.
5. Same brand styling.
6. Same fixed footer at the bottom of every page.
7. Professional padding between header, content, sections, and footer.
8. No content overlap.
9. No footer floating in the middle of the page.
10. No inconsistent logo sizes.
11. No inconsistent templates.
12. No placeholder sections.
13. No fake values.
14. No missing data caused by template changes.

Individual animal pages must be clean, structured, and readable. Use professional section grouping for animal identity, performance data, breeding data, health or relevant records, and other existing data already exported by that animal type.

PHASE 5 — FAMILY TREE / PEDIGREE FIX

Improve the exported family tree/pedigree section.

The family tree in exported individual animal documents must reflect the same family tree structure found in the app. Do not use a weaker placeholder version in the PDF.

Requirements:

1. Exported family tree must visually match the app’s real family tree structure as closely as PDF allows.
2. Use real sire/dam lineage data from the app.
3. No placeholder nodes.
4. No fake ancestors.
5. No generic dummy text.
6. If a real ancestor is missing, show the approved app-style empty/missing state, not a fake placeholder.
7. Family tree layout must be clean and balanced.
8. Family tree must not overlap the footer.
9. Family tree must respect portrait page padding.
10. The family tree must be usable and professional enough for real breeder documentation.

PHASE 6 — FOOTER POSITIONING HARD FIX

The bottom ribbon/footer is currently appearing incorrectly on some exports. Fix it at the layout engine level.

Requirements:

1. Footer must be positioned relative to the PDF page height, not relative to current content height.
2. Footer must appear at the bottom of every page.
3. Footer must appear consistently on page 1, page 2, page 3, and all later pages.
4. Footer must never sit halfway up the page.
5. Footer must never overlap rows, family tree content, or animal detail sections.
6. Footer ribbon must keep the existing dark ribbon design and yellow/white text.
7. Do not change the footer wording.
8. Only fix footer placement, spacing, and page-safe padding.
9. Add a content bottom margin/safe area so content never enters the footer zone.

PHASE 7 — LOGO AND HEADER STANDARDIZATION

All exported documents must use the same logo size and header layout.

Requirements:

1. Use the Group Rams header as the canonical header.
2. Logo must be medium size and identical across exports.
3. Header must be aligned cleanly at the top.
4. Header must not float lower on one export and higher on another.
5. Header must not resize based on document type.
6. Header must not distort the logo.
7. Header must not overlap document title or table content.
8. All exports must use the same header spacing rules.

PHASE 8 — EXPORT DATA MUST REMAIN TYPE-CORRECT

Do not corrupt, simplify, or flatten export data.

The goal is template uniformity, not data uniformity.

Rules:

1. Rams keep ram-specific fields.
2. Ewes keep ewe-specific fields.
3. Lambs keep lamb-specific fields.
4. Individual exports keep their existing animal-specific sections.
5. Group exports keep their existing animal-specific columns.
6. Do not remove existing export fields.
7. Do not rename fields unless required by existing app terminology.
8. Do not replace valid data with “-” unless that was already the correct fallback for genuinely missing data.
9. Do not add fake data to make the sheet look full.
10. Do not stretch or pad with dummy rows.
11. Do not hide missing values by inventing text.

PHASE 9 — IMPLEMENTATION EXPECTATION

This must be implemented as a proper reusable export system.

Expected engineering approach:

1. Identify the current Group Rams export template.
2. Extract its correct header, logo, footer ribbon, typography, and page structure into reusable export components/config.
3. Fix footer positioning inside the reusable layout layer.
4. Replace all inconsistent export templates with the canonical layout.
5. Keep each export’s existing data mapper separate and type-specific.
6. Create/keep separate column definitions for Rams, Ewes, Lambs, Total Herd, and other groups.
7. Create/keep separate detail sections for individual Rams, Ewes, and Lambs.
8. Add pagination support that guarantees 20 group animal rows per landscape page where possible.
9. Add page-safe content bounds for both landscape and portrait exports.
10. Improve individual export family tree rendering using the same app family tree logic/data structure.
11. Remove duplicated one-off PDF styling where it causes inconsistent templates.
12. Keep export code maintainable and centralized.

PHASE 10 — HARDENING AND TESTING

After the export corrections are complete, harden the system.

Add or update tests to prove:

1. All group animal exports use landscape orientation.
2. All individual animal exports use portrait orientation.
3. All exports use the same canonical header config.
4. All exports use the same canonical footer config.
5. All exports use the same logo sizing config.
6. Footer Y-position is fixed to the bottom safe area of the page.
7. Footer is rendered on every page.
8. Group exports can fit 20 animal rows per page.
9. Group exports with fewer than 20 animals do not stretch rows or columns unnaturally.
10. Ram export columns remain ram-specific.
11. Ewe export columns remain ewe-specific.
12. Lamb export columns remain lamb-specific.
13. Total Herd export keeps its correct mixed/herd data.
14. Individual animal exports keep their correct portrait layout.
15. Individual family tree export uses real app lineage data and no placeholder tree.
16. No export route still uses an old inconsistent standalone template.

Generate proof exports manually or through test fixtures for:

1. Total Herd / All Animals export
2. All Rams export
3. All Ewes export
4. All Lambs export
5. Group Rams export
6. Individual Ram export
7. Individual Ewe export
8. Individual Lamb export

Use enough test data to prove multi-page behavior, including at least one group export with more than 20 animals and one export with fewer than 20 animals.

PHASE 11 — REQUIRED COMMANDS

Run the project’s correct validation commands after implementation.

At minimum run:

npm run check
npm run build
npm test

Also run any existing export-specific test commands already present in the repo.

If export-specific tests exist, update them.
If export-specific tests are missing, add focused tests for the layout config, pagination, orientation, footer positioning, logo sizing, and field preservation.

PHASE 12 — FINAL REPORT REQUIRED

When complete, report back with:

1. Branch name.
2. Latest commit hash.
3. Files changed.
4. Explanation of the new canonical export template system.
5. Confirmation that Group Rams remains the visual source of truth.
6. Confirmation that all group animal exports are landscape.
7. Confirmation that all individual animal exports are portrait.
8. Confirmation that the footer ribbon is fixed to the bottom of every page.
9. Confirmation that footer wording/design was not changed.
10. Confirmation that all logos use the same medium size.
11. Confirmation that group exports support at least 20 animal entries per page.
12. Confirmation that rows/columns do not stretch when fewer than 20 animals are exported.
13. Confirmation that Ram, Ewe, Lamb, and Total Herd data mappings were preserved.
14. Confirmation that individual family tree export now reflects the app’s real family tree structure.
15. Test results for npm run check, npm run build, npm test, and export-specific tests.
16. List of sample exports generated for proof.
17. Any remaining risks or blocked items, if any.

Definition of Done:

This task is only complete when every exported document in BreedLog uses the same professional template system, with the same header, same logo sizing, same footer ribbon, correct orientation by export type, correct data by animal type, correct footer bottom positioning, and hardened tests proving the export system cannot drift back into inconsistent templates.
